# Guide to Publishing from MadCap Flare to GitHub Pages

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:
* installed MadCap Flare HTML
* created a MadCap Flare project and configured a HTML5 output
* set up an empty GitHub repository

## Binding a GitHub repository to your MadCap project

1. Copy the link of your empty GitHub repository.
2. Open your MadCap Flare project.
3. In the MadCap Flare main window, navigate to **Project > Project Properties > Source Control > Bind Project**.

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]
 
4. In the dialog window that opened:
    * set the Source Control Provider to **Git**,
    * select the **Remote repository** and **Push on bind** checkboxes,
    * paste the link of your GitHub repository,
    * enter your GitHub username and the email address associated with your GitHub account

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]
 
5. Click **OK** to bind the project to your repository.

## Configuring Your Project for GitHub Pages

1. In the Project Organizer pane on the left side, go to **Project > Target**.
2. Open your HTML5 target, or create a new one.
3. In the General tab, change the Output file to *index.html*.
4. Save your changes to the Output file.

## Creating a Publishing Destination

1. In the HTML5 Output file, click the **Publishing** tab on your left.
2. Click **New Destination**.

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]
 
3. Change the name of your destination (optional) and click **Add**.
4. In the window that appeared, set Destination Type to **Source Control**.
5. In the Destination section, enter the local directory of your cloned GitHub Depository and add *\docs* at the end (e.g. *X:\Users\You\Documents\Github\yourrepository\docs*).

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]

4. Save the changes to your destination.
5. In the Publishing tab of your HTML5 Output file, check the **Publish** box next to the destination you created.
6. Click **Publish** to transfer your project files to the directory.

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]

## Setting up GitHub Pages

1. Open your GitHub repository in a browser and go to **Settings**.
2. Navigate to **Pages > Build and development**. 
3. In the **Source** section, choose **Deploy from a branch**.
4. In the **Branch** section, choose **main** and **/docs**.
5. Click **Save**.

[IMG PLACEHOLDER]

6. After a few moments, your MadCap Flare project should be available at the standard GitHub Pages URL.

## Updating Your MadCap Flare Documentation

1. Open your project in MadCap Flare and make all the necessary updates to content.
2. Navigate to **Publish Primary > HTML5 output**.
3. Wait for the publishing process to complete.
4. Your updates will appear automatically on your GitHub Pages site.